well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
so today we're going to talk about a
term that keeps getting thrown out by
academics and the media
and i think this term is being ignored
because people believe it's hyperbole
they think that it's
being said simply as a reaction to the
trump administration
or because of the trump administration
um so today we're going to talk about
that phrase
is the united states behaving
as a failed state
what is a failed state what are the
characteristics of it there are four
the first is erosion of legitimate
authority to make collective decisions
the second is loss of control of its
territory
or of the monopoly on the legitimate
use of physical force therein
the third inability to provide public
services the fourth inability
to interact with other states as a full
member
of the international community okay
let's go to that first one
erosion of legitimate authority to make
collective decisions does the government
make collective decisions
with authority does it have consent of
the governed
a concept so important it's in the
declaration of independence does that
exist with our current government the
answer is no
why because those people in the current
government the politicians
have pitted society against itself
divided it up they're basing
support and hoping to obtain support for
their new laws
on parties and people rather than ideas
and policies
they don't attempt to make their case
for a new law in the court of public
opinion
that's not how they do it they pass the
law and then try to ram it through the
court system the legal system
if they don't make their case
in the court of public opinion they
don't get consent to the governed
because we're pretty polarized
so it's very hard to believe that the
u.s government has
legitimate authority to make collective
decisions for everybody because they
don't get consent to the government
they use those legal courts rather than
the court of public opinion and as we
know
it is the social belief
that actually enforces laws not just
writing it down on a piece of paper
if writing something down on a piece of
paper and calling it a law
stopped people from doing that activity
there would be no people in prison
it has to come from society as a whole
they have to get consent of the governed
okay so they use the legal system
and then once you start using the legal
system you have to rely
on force and that takes us to number two
loss of control of its territory that's
not really happening
or of the monopoly on the legitimate
use of physical force is that happening
is the government losing the monopoly on
the legitimate use of physical force
absolutely
you can point to outlier cases which
really aren't
as important in the grand scheme of
things such as the checkpoints up in the
pacific northwest
carried out by non-state actors or
the non-state actors that are duking it
out in the streets
yeah that's important to note but beyond
that
it's the legitimate use of physical
force
what's one of the main that's rain
what's one of the main discussions going
on in the country right now
excessive force by law enforcement right
society which is what matters not the
legal definition
society has determined that the force
being used isn't legitimate
it doesn't matter what the courts find
because the courts are an arm of the
state
do the it doesn't matter if the courts
say yes this is okay
because it has to do with consent of the
governed and they don't have it
so every time there's an incident of
excessive force by law enforcement and
the back of the blue crowd comes out and
says no we have to have law in order to
protect the country
the reality is they're pushing it
further into the failed state
category because society at large
is not viewing this force as legitimate
third inability to protect or sorry
inability to provide
public services like clean water in
flint
working levees emergency response to
fires hurricanes health care
the united states doesn't have that it's
failing in that regard
inability to interact with other states
as a full member of the international
community
this we still have for the moment this
we still have for the moment
solely because we're a nuclear power
with a really strong military
if we didn't have that would the rest of
the world take it seriously
our economy used to help us but that's
not working so much anymore because
we've become so isolationist under this
administration
we are a country that violates
international law all the time
we sell out our allies and we break
treaties
we withdraw from treaties
the only thing making the international
community
still listen to us is our military
so is the government failing
are we becoming a failed state yeah yeah
because it benefits those in power
temporarily
they've pitted society against itself
divided it
don't have consent to the governed they
encourage the polarization because as
long as they can keep
those people on the bottom fighting each
other
they can stay at the top for a time
at the end of the day it's up to
you as an individual to help change this
your personal beliefs helps shape
society's beliefs
society's beliefs help shape the law
that's how it's supposed to work
but in order to do that you have to be
active you have to be involved
you have to start at your community
level
because the national level has become
too corrupt
it has become a failed state people just
out for themselves
and failing in their obligations as
stewards of the state
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good day